So, Mac, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Awesome to have you here.
Mac Leff: Hey, thank you, Michael, for the introduction.
I'm here.
Excited.
Yeah, I'm pretty excited to be talking about medicine and all the stuff that you guys are
doing with Python.
I really like these kinds of shows because I think it's important to highlight that Python
is not just for web developers and pure data science machine learning people, but it's used
huge spectrum of people doing all sorts of interesting stuff and solving real problems
with it, right? And you, sounds like you fall pretty solidly in that category.
Yeah, absolutely. It was like, you know, Python has been sort of this discovery as,
you know, I've gone through my career as a physician. And it's interesting how, you know,
to begin with, when computer science, initially when I was training and growing up, it was hard
imagine medicine and computer science sort of being hand in hand together but now i think things have
progressed and there's a lot of technology that's now in there in medicine that that allows you to
do all these fascinating things and of course as as i have discovered python it it brings in kind
of the uh the toolkit and the ability to you know to be able to uh achieve and solve problems in a
Yeah, it is a very exciting time. And I think it's just getting better and better.
Before we get too far into this, tell people a quick bit about yourself, quick introduction.
Yeah, absolutely. So I'm Soma Troy. I'm a molecular pathologist. It's a type of physician
who deals with looking at the genome of either a patient or a patient's tissue. And we essentially
look at all of these things in a way to be able to help manage patients treatment.
I, in my current position, I am an associate professor and the director of molecular pathology
at Cincinnati Children's Hospital. My lab is a clinical lab that is under the division of
pathology and we do a lot of work that pertains to kids in terms of helping them diagnose and
manage pediatric cancer as well as infectious disease that happened in this age group.
Molecular pathology, I essentially trained back in India as a physician with my MD,
Then I came here, started in Pittsburgh.
I did my training in pathology and lab medicine.
I specialized in molecular pathology.
Then I was there in Pittsburgh.
I worked for some time and then opened in Cincinnati Children's.
Excellent.
Do you work directly with patients or do you get samples sent to you from other doctors
and then you process them and analyze them?
Yeah, that's a good question.
So I do not work with patients directly.
it's a kind it's a subspecialty in medicine where my lab works with the samples that have
been collected in the patient either from you know the or you know a procedure or from the radiology
suite and then we work on that tissue or the blood sample or a bone marrow sample that comes to us
and and yes then we then all the testing that we perform is off from that specimen and then once we
generate the uh the clinical reports back they go back to the patient's uh you know chart and to
the patients to the clinicians who are uh treating and managing them and then that way it helps how
you know how they're able to then uh you know get a diagnosis and then give the appropriate treatment
and the management of the patient yeah excellent so yeah you must see a lot of a lot of different
stuff flying flying through the lab you have to analyze so how did you go from i'm studying
medicine to i'm writing python code and running automation and what was that process like
well uh that was a that was an interesting journey for me um so before uh medicine and biology came
into my life um i started off it was second grade i believe when um you know my dad he got me uh
a computer at that time which is a you know 64 kilobytes small machine so it was i think it's
for msx uh computers where you can you could write like gw basic code and uh you know some basic
you know predefined hex code and you can you know run small applications on that that was my starting
point it was uh it was super exciting for me and i think from there on um the journey went into as i
I went through high school and then college.
Medicine was, I would say,
biology was something that intrigued me.
And at the same time, I also got interested in genetics,
looking at DNA sequences.
And I had a natural liking for the fact
that I could study about the cell,
about the genome, the DNA, and RNA.
But also I realized that there was a lot of math
and competition that you can use to sort of
slice and dice data.
And at that time, the place that I grew in India
was a very small place.
So we didn't have access to resources like internet.
So my exposure to internet was when I actually went
to med school for the first time.
Oh yeah, you can actually connect to other computers.
So that's when I started my medicine.
So obviously I did my training in medicine in medical school back in India.
That's when I started to connect and talk to a lot of people
and some of my friends who actually were already writing apps at that time
using Java applets on browser.
And so I started to make some connection in terms of images
and learning how some of those things can be used in medicine.
And so during my radiology rotation,
That was my first real life.
It was my realization that actually in medicine,
you can use computers a lot to handle a lot of these
and images, X-rays, CT scans.
And I think as it went on, when I came to the US,
that's where it really started off.
During my residency in pathology here,
I actually connected with my mentors,
Dr. Anil Parwani and Dr. Le'Lon Pantanois.
They are well-known pathology informaticists.
They've spent a lot of their time sort of dwelling
in the world of pathology, medicine, and computer science.
And so that is when I could actually realize that, yes,
you can do a lot of innovative stuff
by developing apps, algorithms, analyzing,
either image data or molecular data.
And so that is when I started to get into designing
app, which was a very simple web app that was a project that was working with one of my mentors.
And so the idea was that we had a lot of these pathology images and we wanted to create a
little browser app that would display these images as thumbnails and then clicking that
that could enlarge the image, show a little display.
And so I used, at that time it was.NET framework to be ASP.NET.
So I created a little app using Visual Basic,
slowly I then migrated using C# in the same environment.
And that time I started my advanced fellowship training
in molecular pathology.
That's when I, you know, that's when I started there,
that's when I realized there's a lot of genomic sequencing data
where essentially you're dealing with a lot of strings
and numbers and, you know, you have to make a lot of sense
in terms of this large volume of data that comes in.
If we're working with, so the kind of data that you're working with for this genetic stuff.
Yes.
For when you're studying the genomics, so how much data is in, say, one strand of DNA?
How much of that do you actually care about?
Like, give us a sense of sort of how much data we're talking.
Right.
So it really depends on what is being done.
and so when we look at so when we talk about genomics it is really designed on how the
experiment is done so for example if we just simply look at the entire human genome we are
talking about three billion alphabets essentially it's you know the combination of four alphabets
a t and a t g and c so these are the four nucleotides of the of the dna sequence and the rna has
and one additional one replaces A. But the idea is that it's a mix and match of these sequence.
And so if you think about the entire human genome as a single thread of ATG and Cs in various
combination, you're looking at 3 billion alphabets. And so what happens is when we do these sequencing
experiments where you would take the DNA molecule from a bunch of cells within a tissue, and then
either we read all the three billion base pairs and typically the way the sequencing is done is
you read all of these sequences and you know from from many molecules and so you'll have multiple
copies of that when you're you know translating from a molecular like a chemical molecular
structure to a dna sequence on say a flat file on a you know in a file system and so if you look at
that large scale of data like the entire genome, we are talking of, you know, hundreds of gigabytes,
maybe even terabyte worth of data. Then there are other more practical approaches when we look at
the genome. When we, and especially this is something that we use for day-to-day patient
care, which is referred to as targeted sequencing. What that means is instead of the
three billion base pairs, we focus on those regions of the human genome that are of most pertinent use,
or you know that we at least as the current field of genomics that we understand what to do with
and so there are certain genes that at least in the you know in the space i work with cancer
genomics that are i would say close to about maybe uh two to a thousand to two thousand genes which
are known to be cancer associated and of that roughly about five to seven hundred genes are where
we know that they have been studied and demonstrated that if there are certain types of abnormalities
in those genes in terms of these sequence changes, that they have certain meaning from, you know,
in context of a tumor in order to make a diagnosis or to understand if the tumor is aggressive or
benign or if there are certain treatments that could be applied to those tumors. And that's
specifically linked to the kind of sequence change you see in those in that region of the genome and
that you know we are talking about practically speaking and we talk about um you know the
targeted testing that we do it's it's a very small fraction of the large genome typically there's a
term known as exome sequencing and exome sequencing refers to sequencing all those regions of the
for one or the other gene.
That is typically about one to 2% of the entire gene.
And so if we further narrow it down to about say,
five, 600 genes, that one would typically sequence
for clinical cancer molecular testing.
I would say that's probably about a 10th,
or maybe slightly less than that of the genome,
but it's a very high yield from a clinical standpoint.
Because the most alteration you will find
that would help with the clinical treatment is high.
So if you're going to talk about that data set,
that is, it's complex in a different way
because just looking at the raw sequence data
would be somewhere in, I would say,
one to 20 gigs from a single sequence file,
but it entirely depends on how deep we go.
So for example, when we talk about sequencing,
As I mentioned before, when we sequence a molecule,
we can sequence it either at certain depths.
That means what level of redundancy you
want to be able to read that molecule.
Sometimes we read the molecules 20 to 30 times.
So that's referred to as 30x.
Or sometimes we'll read that 500 times.
So that will be 500x.
Do you do that because you want to make sure you don't misread?
Yes.
Right.
So what happens is the greater the depth of sequence,
so typically for such large panels
that we sequence in a clinical setting,
we usually target about 1500 X to 2000 X.
That means we're reading that 2000 times.
So the more the depth it is,
the possibility of identifying a certain variation
or genomic alteration that is present at a very low level.
For example, say you have a tumor cell
and within that only 2% of the cells
And so when you're looking for or hunting for these needles in a haystack, you really want to maximize the amount of depth you have to be able to pick those things up.
So it really depends on how deep we go.
The more deep we go, the more data it is.
And so it can scale up to almost several hundred gigabytes.
Sure.
Yeah, I've always wondered about how you can go and read somebody's genetics and then not make a mistake when you're reading it.
Using chemicals to read.
But it's really ridiculous how much data is there.
Off by one, a C for a G or whatever is a bad thing, right?
Right.
But it is, you know, I think as the technology has matured,
there's always, there's nothing 100%, you know,
in terms of the error profile for the enzyme that has been used to work,
the technology that is reading the actual fluorescence,
converting that to signal.
there's always statistical values and probabilities
that are associated with what is the probability
that it is wrong or incorrect or correct.
But within that frame and where the current technology is,
it's pretty accurate for if not all,
many of the regions of the genome.
And so it's mind baffling how it works.
- Yeah, it really is quite amazing.
It's one of the modern marvels of science for sure.
- It is, it is.
Yeah. So I think you're a little bit unusual, a little bit weird in the sense that you got into,
as your first sort of programming thing to bring to apply to your science and medicine side of
things was C-sharp rather than, or MVV.net, rather than something like Python or R or something.
So maybe talk a bit about that experience, contrast it with Python. Like,
why do you end up moving to Python?
Yeah. So, you know, I think the reason I started using VBnet C# was I would say most,
it was probably influenced a lot by at the time when I was doing, you know, my med school in India,
as to what was available at that time, it was not something I would just go to the internet and like
start getting a lot of resources as one would do now. So it was pretty much like, you know, this is
the book I have available and that's about the document. That's the only thing. So you start.
Yeah. That's about five years. Right. And then, but the thing is when I started applying C# and
it was mostly C# and a little bit of C++, like, you know, started to get into like with
some of the non-genetic stuff initially, well, the project I'm working on, it was not too bad
because I was able to accomplish most of the tasks. But then once I got into genomics and I came,
So the way professionals who get into genomics and molecular pathology, there are a couple
different routes. So either the people who are physician trained and they kind of have a formal
background in medicine and they kind of do a specialized training and then they become
molecular pathologists after getting more satisfied. There is the other route which is more of a
research background where people have spent a lot of their time in really deep research.
They've learned a lot of genomics hands-on, either from a computational background or from a more
laboratory, like a wet laboratory background. And so they've obviously done their PhDs and
postdoc training and then come into the molecular pathology field.
People starting there tend to have more of a formal competition training.
So they usually get, obviously, when you start with a research lab, R, Python are the most common tools that are used for any kind of data analysis and data set visualization.
Coming from more of a foreign medicine background,
typically when we get training in clinical informatics
or pathology informatics,
often it is very kind of,
I would not say corporate base,
a very formal application development space.
So it's a lot of Windows-based,
.NET, C-Sharp, that kind of thing.
Standard enterprise stack.
Yeah, Java or.NET is a private-like choice.
yeah okay yeah in bioinformatics i mean at least in genomics bioinformatics and kind of the ecosystem
of tools available it's it's a it's a mishmash of everything it's uh there's uh for anything which
is very competition intensive like when you're trying to align sequences to the human genome
those are very intensive tasks and typically there's a lot of um you know um c c plus plus
java that's involved in some of these very mainstream tools that are available uh more
More recently, I think we are seeing Rust coming into the picture as well.
There's some applications.
And then of course, Python and R are the predominant, I think, tool sets,
the programming language that are used to solve all of these problems.
So when I started my Molecular Pathology Fellowship and I got into,
now I had to do this project that involved manipulating all the sequence data
to a point where we would be able to develop an application that would help.
It's a web-based application that could help for other pathologists and faculty to read
that sequencing data and digest in a very way that's easy for them to look at it rather
than going to the Linux terminal and opening up raw files and things like that.
So I used, that was my first project was to use C# in that context.
But I quickly realized that there was a lot of these algorithms that were natively written
R or Python and then having to
incorporate those functionalities
was not as easily
possible. So I had to rewrite a lot of those things in
C# primarily.
It was a good learning curve, but
I think from a main perspective, it was getting
really difficult.
And so that's when the realization
was that I think the combination of Linux and
Python was, I had to
move towards that.
Yeah. C#,
probably from the time frame that you're thinking about, it didn't
really have a great package manager story, not to the same degree that Python does. Although they
do pretty good now over in the internet land. Yeah. All right. So a good question from Chris in the
audience says, is there a reason to use Python specifically? Are there some special sauce
packages that make it attractive? It sounds like that's kind of what you were getting at.
You found more solutions to these algorithms than available in Python than in C#.
Yeah.
Whatever languages.
Right.
So I think, I mean, I think the simple answer is yes.
I think the community and the amount of work that has been done in this particular
space with genomics, I mean, when you are really searching for applications, it kind
of falls into these three categories of, you know, anything which is a high performance
compile, you know, program that is usually in the Rust, you know, C++, C, a lot of, you
know, of those languages, a little bit of Rust and Java.
And then the other bin is essentially kind of split up into Python and R.
I think for me, Python was,
and I think I'm sure others have shared the same way where it's almost like, wow,
this is amazing. Like coming from C#,
it was a little bit of a change because there's no more like, you know,
curly braces and think about the whole
Did you miss your semicolons?
Kind of. Even now, sometimes when I write a little JavaScript, I think, oh, yeah, okay.
Exactly.
But not bad. I think what I got onto was the simplicity of the language and how powerful
it was when, if I'm thinking about, it was interesting when I had to do something like
There was an algorithm where I had to parse out certain strings in a way where it required
some known workflows that we use to do variant annotations when we are cross-referencing
databases and putting them together.
When you look for in terms of C# packages, there's really nothing there for natively to
grid.
You have to write a lot of those things.
In Python, the amount of time that is spent in developing those things is much faster.
The development time itself is quick because you either get an idea of somebody who's already
done the work or there's a more formal package that you can use.
I think initially when I started off, BioPython was a very interesting collection of packages
like a tool suite essentially written to have all these functions available for very common
day-to-day task, I want to query a certain region of the BAM file, or I want to parse
out certain things in the fastq file to look at some of the sequences, or counting number
of sequences in a given file and getting read counts, things like that was all out of the
box.
And so that was the first thing, "Oh, wow, this is amazing."
I mean, somebody's already done the work, and I'm just putting on top of it.
Instead of creating these, I'll just use those. Perfect.
Right.
So that was one.
The other motivation to use Python was, say, for example, why not R?
Why Python?
Because R is a very rich ecosystem in genomics and visualization.
So I think the second thing was in terms of the idea that I was working on was having
to develop a web application and all of
these bioinformatics,
toolings and algorithms running in the back end.
At that time, it was like,
"Okay, well, Python,
I've not heard much about in terms of web application."
Mostly it was, again, this big C#.net.
That was why I started off with that.
But then at that time,
there was Django and then Flask was coming in.
It was a very minimalistic application.
I started focusing on that.
It was very easy with Flask to get up and running with very simple applications to do
that.
I didn't try much into Django just because it was too bloated for me.
But Flask was great.
And then what I realized was you can create a simple web application, but then at the
same time, you can use all your Biopithons and all the wonderful Biopithetics packages
in the back end.
So it's like a single language that lets you do both.
And so this is great.
I don't have to go anywhere to learn a third or a fourth or fifth different programming language,
and this just gets the job done.
Yeah, keep it in mind that your main job is medicine, not programming, right?
It's not like you're a CS person who's just out to learn all the languages, right?
Right, right, right.
So that definitely is, and again, that's a huge, I would say, again, as I said,
I'm in a, I'm sort of in an unusual position where I'm, you know, a physician, but I also
do a lot of these application developments.
So that certainly is an important point in terms of how much time I have to be able to
develop these prototypes.
And then obviously, you know, typically the way it works is at least right now here, you
know, where I am currently working, I have an excellent and amazing team of developers
and bioinformations who really do a lot of the development work on the front and back
end.
And so for me to be able to take additional time out of my, you know, the clinical and the patient care work is limited.
So if I can get whatever prototype I'm thinking of or developing the application fast, then, you know, that's what I'm going for.
Right.
So you can hand it off to the team and let them polish it up and make it production ready, basically.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was wondering how much time of your job do you get to spend on these kinds of things, you know, finding new packages, optimizing or improving the ways that you're working on stuff versus sort of handing it off to the folks you work with and keeping, you know, focused more on the medicine side.
Yeah, so that I think it's a good question. I think it's evolved over time as I've been sort of when I was in training and then being a faculty and then in this new position.
One of the things I did was as part of my certification was to get board certified in clinical informatics.
That's a discipline by itself that involves a lot of, it's a very broad field in terms of informatics and healthcare.
And then one of the buckets there is software development.
And so I was quite interested in that field.
And so most of my time in terms of being able to devote to finding new packages or trying
to write up an application that could solve a problem or coming up with prototypes, it
was done in a way that sort of aligned with the work I was doing.
And so it would be days when I'm on clinical service where I'm mostly working on sort of
with patient care related matters.
So those weeks would be obviously very busy.
I would wake up at extremely early in the morning, spend the first two hours, four to six a.m.
just working on this, and then I get back to the clinical world.
And then there would be weeks when I'm off clinical service, so I'm not responsible for any
patient care related work.
And those weeks would be where I would spend time in terms of doing these, investigating
into some of these packages and coming up with new ideas, exploring what is available
in terms of certain problems that I was solving.
And that time, sort of my quote, protected time professionally was spent in that.
And so that would be maybe a week spent into like, hey, we are trying to look into this variant annotation pool.
And then we want to write wrappers around it.
So it becomes easy for our lab's operation to be able to use that.
And so kind of that's how it works.
So some of those, either early mornings or the weeks I'm off
clinical services and how that works out.
Yeah, excellent.
Is it changing fast?
So I'll give you an analogy that you could tell me about your space.
So on one hand, in Python web world, you mentioned Flask and Django.
Flask and Django, while they are evolving,
are kind of the way they have been, and they're pretty stable.
And if you learned Flask five years ago,
you're still good to use Flask today.
Or is it more like FastAPI, Pydantic, msgspec,
just there's something new all the time
that you got to keep learning to bring in?
Are there a ton of new packages just coming online
or is there a set of really solid ones?
So I think it's both yes and no.
And so it depends on what area we're working on.
So right now in the clinical lab that I'm directing here,
when I came here in 2020, it was when we started off from scratch.
So essentially, the idea was to be able to bring up a pediatric cancer
sequencing infrastructure that was not developed.
And so it was ground up from the lab to personnel, to space,
to competition, and such for everything.
And so we kind of have this sort of two big bubbles in that operation
from an informatics perspective.
One of them is the, you know, we essentially are in the process of developing our custom lab information system.
That's essentially a web app.
And so we have that space and the other space is bioinformatics.
And so bioinformatics is a lot of the custom scripting or the applications we develop is Python based.
Some of them we do with Golang, you know, when we need a little bit of performance aspect.
And then the other aspect is the web app.
So from a web app perspective, when I started here,
we actually started, we use FastAPA.
So that's kind of, you know, that was so,
you know, the idea was that, well, you know,
since you're starting from scratch
and I came to know about FastAPA at that point of time,
the whole thing was about, you know, acing away.
I was pretty much sold on that aspect.
And then, you know, I think the whole tool
made a lot of sense.
I'm like, okay, well, this is perfect time to be able to,
I think when I started, FastAPI was 0.5 or 0.6.
And so now obviously you can see a lot of change happening there.
So yeah, that definitely is a lot of fast pace.
And so we kind of do catching up in a sense
where it has to be done in a careful way.
Reason is because from,
as compared to more traditional research lab testing
where at the end really, there's a lot of discovery,
or excitement at the end it all translates into being sort of you know the data is presented at
a conference or you publish that as a manuscript and that's the end point so if you move off from
version one to version three of an algorithm you know you have to obviously make sure that
your research everything is reproducible but beyond that is not a problem but when we're talking about
the same thing in context of a clinical care for a patient the room for error is very very little
you can't make mistakes and so the entire space of clinical testing is very regulated in that sense
because um there's a lot of requirement that you know you have to perform that any change that's
happened in your pipeline say you're using you know some version of an application now you
upgrade to a newer version you have to demonstrate that the analytical performance in terms of
sensitivity and specificity for that pipeline didn't change um and so a lot of work is needed when you
go do like a version upgrade.
So we keep those things very controlled and careful
versus some other things which are more in the R&D space.
There's a little bit more room to play around with tools.
All right, yeah.
Chris was asking an audience a great question about basically,
is it more exploratory and you just move really fast
and don't really worry about tests and stuff like that?
It sounds like this is more of a production type thing.
Like if you're going to run it over and over,
and if it gives a different answer,
some point for testing for a disease or something that's really bad you need it to be right all the
time and so yes yes so the rule when we do when we do new test developments or we bring a new
algorithm obviously that part of which we refer to there's a formal term that we use in lab medicine
it's called uh familiarization and optimization or onf phase that's where you know there's a lot of
flexibility new tools new version trying out different things but once it moves from that
into the validation phase and then once we deploy the application. Once the deployment is there,
it's a production application. We don't touch it unless something really has to be tinkered with
or there's a bug that we'll fix. Who's in charge of running those apps? Is that
people on your team and your lab or is that the hospital or how?
Yeah. So the way it is set up here is, so when I started off, I was the end of one. So I started
up with the FastAPI application, I had to build up the bioinformatics pipeline that I
had initially authored. But then when we went through the validation phase, I luckily had
two people on staff who were handling the bioinformatics on the front end. And then
eventually we had a third person who joined the team. So then they were helping me out with
a lot of the actual groundwork of writing the code, getting tests done, going through the validation
data, summarizing that for me. Being a lab director, it is my responsibility ultimately to sign off on
all those things, say, "Hey, okay, this is the validation and this is what is being demonstrated
that your package or your pipeline or whatever you're working on demonstrates this level of
sensibility." Then yes, I, being a lab director, say that yes, this is working. Once that happens,
So we then deploy those applications in production.
You know, we use GitHub and the usual dev test prod cycle.
And so that's kind of how it works.
Cool. Do you have your own hardware or do you stuff like on DigitalOcean or AWS?
So with healthcare data, there is generally a little bit of angst with, you know, data sitting on the cloud outside of the institution.
I would say the institution that I work on is very, that way it's quite, very forward
thinking and being able to use modern technology.
So what we started off and since it was everything being built up from scratch, we're taking
the decision to keep things on-prem for beginning, but we also kept in mind that at some point
of time, if the institution decides that we're going to switch our infrastructure to using
AWS or Azure or whatever the platform is going to be, we want it to be ready.
And so the way we had it set up, and this is due to our amazing IS team here at our institution,
So we had our own hardware that we got in terms of the actual servers.
And we collaborated with the IS team to be able to help us build our Kubernetes infrastructure.
So we have a test and a prod Kubernetes cluster and then all our apps and the BioNTech pipeline.
well the apps for now and the biofibrex pipeline that we're looking forward you know in the near
future to get deployed on these things as a matter of fact what we've done is uh our dev team we start
to we do a lot of the development on properties as well and then we keep moving all these things as
containerized applications that's excellent so really embracing containers and docker and kubernetes
and that should make it super easy to move to wherever you want to go right anything that can
run kubernetes you just push push to that and you're good to go right right i mean that's uh
you know it's it's a little bit uh difficult to start with but i think once we are in that you
know uh screen then it is yeah it is much less effort to move things around yeah last year i
rewrote all of our servers and apis and condensed six to eight servers all into one just docker
cluster and it was a great decision but to me it was also a little intimidating to play well
here's one more thing I layer I have to manage and understand.
And if something goes wrong there, then everything else still breaks.
But having it set up is really nice once you get used to it.
It is.
All right.
Let's talk a bit about, well, I have a question for you.
I want to talk about some of these packages that you've been saying
are like a lot of the reasons you chose Python and you use a lot.
It's great.
But before we get there, like I got the biopython.org website pulled up.
And the very first line is, BioPython is a set of freely available tools.
Open source, freely available.
How much does that matter to you guys?
On one hand, you have a ton of money being in the medical space.
It's really high stakes.
So paying for commercial software or commercial libraries
is probably not the biggest worry.
On the other hand, open source is really nice.
being able to look inside is really nice.
Free means you don't have to deal with getting permission.
How does that fit into your world?
I know how it fits into small startups and things like that,
but for a hospital, for example,
what does free and open source mean to you guys?
I think it does have a lot of impact
in terms of how we end up working and setting up these things.
And obviously, I would, whatever I'm speaking is representing, you know, what it means from
sort of an operational standpoint.
You know, when we talk about molecular pathology, generally being able to bring up a clinical
service like that is a huge investment.
And so a lot of the investment is, and this is generally applicable to, you know, any institution
where something like this has been set up for patient care or clinical use.
the investment is primarily in a lot of the instrumentation and the reagents that we use
are generally quite expensive which is sort of you know the I would say when we talk about
you know what is the cost of a test when it is offered that cost factors in a lot of these
you know operational costs that we need to you know buy these expensive sequencing instruments
you know the reagents that are used as consumables as we do the tests over and over again every
you know every week every month um so uh from that standpoint traditionally the way things have been
designed is you know uh i would say 10 years back when we would you know work with our finance team
to say okay the cost of the test is going to be so and so based on all of these different inputs
and so uh you know 10 years back computation bioinformatics you know all of these were not
factored in without but now as we are in that era where you know using gpus on a regular basis to
be able to do you know simple uh i would not say simple but you know routine work to get from the
raw sequence data to be able to identify genomic variants that's getting common you know using fbgas
using large clusters to be able to perform these tasks. And so now we are starting to see those
costs getting in as part of the ultimate cost that goes to the patient for a test. And so we try to
minimize those things. One of the ways to be able to minimize those things is to be able to choose
between free open source versus something which is a commercial product. And it's always a balance
between the reliability and the service that you're able to get back saying, "Hey, something
breaks down, we know there's an SLA, there's a certain assurance that this thing is going to
really have help versus open source pre would be where we feel very confident in the code base.
Sometimes what happens is when we use some of these open source tools, we end up almost
invariably having some wrapper around it to change things or being able to have some insight into the
source code. So it depends on that balance, you know, what we choose.
How often do you fork it and use your self-maintained version versus just run what is publicly on PyPI
and then maybe wrap it to orchestrate it a bit?
So I would say for the web application part of it, we don't really do a lot of forking. We kind
of go with what it is. The only thing what we do is since we have the luxury of using a combination
of GitHub and containers. And knowing the fact that the regulatory requirements require that you
tightly version control all these things with history and all those things, we tend to, when
we are developing these things, when we are validating it, before we do that, we try to stick
to a fairly stable version. So for example, things like beta or release candidates, we try to stay
away from them, even if they have some desirable features. But unless we see a full production
version of that we don't tend to switch to it so we keep things like that without maintaining
or without forking or kind of you know making modifications when we get into more of the
bioinformatic stuff where we are actually trying to use an algorithm to solve a particular piece of
part of the pipeline that is doing some data transformation it depends on how much we want to
change or modify that's when we you know sometimes fork it sometimes we fork where we know that
And this is the unfortunate reality in many of the scenarios where you have great open source tools,
but after some time due to whatever financial or business or other reasons that they stop maintaining.
And so essentially we kind of get into this freeze mode. We tend to fork that so that at least we have
that available. And then if we make any changes that we kind of keep it to that fork. But generally,
I would say it's probably in the 80-20 where 20% is where we 4k make some change. Most of the times
they try not to do that. But yes, open source free tools have a big impact. A lot of their tools that
we use as part of our bioinformatics pipeline, as a matter of fact, which is kind of used in the
community of molecular pathology to build these bioinformatics pipelines, they tend to use a lot
of open source tools. The reason for that is, for example, it's not written in Python, but
there's an algorithm called BWA. It's written by Professor Henley. That's one of the algorithms
that is almost like a de facto, I would say, when it comes to doing sequence alignment. That's a
part of the pipeline. It's a tried and tested application for more than a decade now. This is
a fairly stable algorithm. We don't tend to as well maintain from an open source perspective.
So those obviously are highly, we highly rely on those. But there is this whole ecosystem of
softwares that come under this rubric term of variant calling, where we're trying to identify
these different variants. There's a whole bunch of those, and some are fairly well maintained.
they are open source sometimes depending on the context you're using they it is you need a license
if it is used in the commercial setting you may you don't need the license if it is in an academic
setting like for example when we do clinical testing in a you know institution such as where
i am right now that's an academic institution so typically it's not you know it's not for profit
And so obviously we don't need licenses for that use.
But once this goes into a pure commercial space where if the lab is doing all of this testing for profit, then there's a license requirement.
So we see a combination of these things showing up.
It's actually becoming more common now with open source tools, at least in the genomic biofibic space.
Yeah. Oh, excellent.
I think another benefit probably for you guys, I know it's a benefit for a lot of organizations, is if you use the open source tools and you need to hire somebody new, there's a good chance that they have experience already with those tools.
Whereas if you use something private, expensive, you might have to teach them from scratch what the thing is, right?
Yes, that is correct. As a matter of fact, it's fortunate that a lot of the people who've done a lot of good work and have contributed to the genomics bioinformatics space have, you know, the general tendency is whenever we are setting up any sort of pipelines for, you know, DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing, or, you know, more from a research perspective, you know, methylation sequencing, single cell RNA-seq, you know,
UMI based, error corrected, varying calling.
There's a lot of, there's a very thriving open source space.
And so that really helps with people who come in,
even if they're not familiar with these tools,
it's easy to get familiar with because there's a lot of,
you know, community backing that up.
Or as you said, when we have,
when we hire people who already are coming from,
you know, from a different lab or they've had some experience,
but you know, they come and say, oh yeah,
we know how to do alignment or I'm aware of these applications that use that.
It is much, much easier from a learning curve perspective rather than having to now open up a manual and this is the proprietary thing that only works here.
Yes.
Exactly.
Cool.
All right.
Well, we coordinated a bit on a list of packages that you've used in your lab or find really helpful for your work.
And maybe we could touch on those just a little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah. So CNV kit, genome-wide copy number from high throughput sequencing.
I don't know what that means, but tell us about it.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So CNV or copy number variation, this is a type of genomic alteration
where what happens is in a simplistic way, at least when we talk about cancer, the cancer
cells sometimes for it to be able to survive it tries to use different ways of doing that
biologically one of the way to do that is certain genes that help a cell to grow in the absence of
nutrients or with very little nutrition is certain genes if it has more copies of those genes than
normal then it will okay you know it's like you have more money than expected you can do a lot of
things so typically what happens is in a normal human genome any cell that we pick up it will only
two copies of the gene one is coming from your mom one's come from your dad in cancer what happens
is in certain uh scenarios if a gene that helps with growth of the cell or it helps the cell to
survive even without signal or nutrition if it has more copies of that it makes six eight 20 50 copies
it can survive versus uh there are certain scenarios where if there is a gene that is supposed to
regulate the cell so it doesn't go haywire if the cancer is able to delete one of the cells are one
of the genes out then you only have one gene left you knock out the thing and then that protective
mechanism is gone so then the cancer cell can easily survive so what happens is with cnv or
copy number variations the idea is that we use the high throughput sequencing data to be able to
infer how many copies of these genes do we have is it more than two is it less than two and so
this particular package it's a very very uh you know well established well maintained
package in the community that essentially does this thing is you give it the sequencing data and
define the regions of the genome that you're interested in
you can also provide like names for the regions like you know this region is
you know gene b braf or this egfr whatever you're you know interested in and then what i do is it
will do all the analysis to be able to tell you that okay well when we are comparing this particular
tumor against this reference set of you know 20 normal samples where we know that you should only
have two copies of the gene in this particular tumor we are seeing there are 50 copies of the gene
so it gives you kind of an output data that um numerical can tell you that you know what it does
is it does a a log two based uh you know transformation of the tracing that okay after
all this competition i can when i compare to the normal this is 50 times more this is
times more the expected copy or it is half of the amount of copy we need in the deletions.
So that's what really it does.
And it's written in Python.
It has Python dependencies that have been written in either C or Python C bindings.
But at the end, it gives you that data.
And it has an internal visualization tool, but I was not very happy with how it was written.
So I ended up writing a wrapper, which is called CNA Plotter.
It's open source.
It essentially uses the end data from CNBKit, and then it gives you a nice visualization
of the copy number.
So I think if you scroll down, that's my example.
Yeah, you have this on GitHub.
So people can, if people want to use this, it's right there, right?
Yep, it's right there.
Yeah.
So I think at the very bottom of the images, the screenshots there.
Oh, yeah.
Yep, right here.
Yeah.
So for example, the first image over here, you can see this, you know, it's a thin band
of all these multicolor things, and each one of them is a single human chromosome.
So chromosome 1, 2, 3, 4, so on and so forth.
And if you look in the image, it is at the Y scale essentially is log 2, which is 0.
And going up, it is 1, 2, 3.
And then it's a native scale on the lower side.
So anything going above 0 means you have more copies than 2,
where below is less than 2 copies.
And so if you see here in this example, the plot here,
you see the very end, which says chromosome X,
is a single, you know, the band over here is lower at negative one.
That means this is a male patient with a single X chromosome.
As compared to females who have two X chromosomes.
And so when we look at this plot below here, this is actually a plot from a cell line,
a tumor cell line that is abnormal.
And here we see there are two genes which are amplified.
One of them is a gene known as TERT and the other gene is MDM2.
So these two genes are, again, one of those examples
where it gives the tumor survival advantage over there.
And so you can see here there are multiple copies
of these genes as compared to the baseline over here.
- I see, so that might predict something like
the, how survivable the cancer is.
- Yeah, how survivable, right.
So if it is, is it going to be localized,
say where it happened, or it's going to like spread
to other parts of the body, or be difficult to treat,
or be resistant to treatment, yes.
So if this is you, you want higher numbers, not lower numbers.
It all depends, right?
I mean, certain genes are good genes, for example.
If there are certain checkpoint genes, if those numbers, you know, if they have lower numbers,
you want to have two copies of them because if that protective mechanism is gone, you know,
the tumor becomes very aggressive.
I see.
So it is all into context.
So if you're looking at the good genes, you want to have two copies of the good gene.
If you're looking at some of the bad genes,
you don't want to have more than two copies of the back.
- One or zero is better.
I got it, I got it.
Okay. - Yeah.
- Okay, HGVS.
- Yes, this is again, a wonderful package.
That was initially, I think it was started by
a person named Reese Hart.
He's, I think he still maintains it,
but there's a lot of like, you know,
it's a very well publicly maintained open source package.
It's a lot of, you know, community involvement
as well. So what NGVS is, it's a nomenclature system for giving a name to all these variations.
So when you talk about, I'm not sure Michael if you've heard about the term mutation.
So mutation is a very commonly used term that refers to some kind of abnormality in the genome.
In this case, what happens is there are these standards that most clinical labs follow when
when they're putting all of this information
in the patient's report saying,
okay, this particular tumor has mutation in BRAF,
a mutation in EGFR, some other gene.
And there is a certain way that those mutations are described
in terms of what sequence alterations happening,
say at the mRNA level
and what sequence alterations are happening
at the protein level.
So now in your protein, you're missing these amino acids
or you have excess of these amino acids
or something got switched from here to there.
So there is a formal way of defining that and the guidelines of the group that defines that
is referred to as HGPS, Human Genome Variation Society.
And so it's a very complicated process where you have to do all these translations from
the genomic scale where the numbering system starts from one to like, and whatever the length
of your chromosome is in terms of ATGCs.
And each chromosome has a different number.
And if you have a certain alteration that is happening, say, in chromosome 7 at this particular position, then you have to translate that to the mRNA of that gene and then the protein of that gene.
So it's a lot of math, a lot of strings involved in that process.
And so essentially this HGVS Python package provides all of those functionality as a wrap.
You can create your translation.
can essentially project the variant from your genomic to the mRNA to a protein level or vice
versa. You can validate things. So we ended up, I actually wrote a paper about this when we did a
validation of how well this particular package works. And so now in the lab that I'm currently in,
we implement this thing for generating those normal papers. So what happens is when we put a report
out for the in the patient's chart and when our you know say our oncology oncologist was treating the
patient they want to know okay what is you know what did you identify in this tumor genome they
will read that nomenclature saying oh okay this particular change in this bf gene this is
significant i know that there are therapies that are out there that we can use to treat this patient
tumor so that's what this nomenclature system is about so it's a very complex but fairly automated
system yeah and it normalizes it if there's multiple ways to represent it and things like
that very very nice all right this one i'm familiar with open pi xl yeah i guess you probably have a
lot of data that either goes comes from or goes gets shared out into excel right yes so what we
do is we sort of are right now in our lab we're kind of in this sort of um you know uh kind of an
you know, interim phase where we sometimes use Excel to look at some data. So,
traditionally speaking, before, you know, typically any lab that goes from, you know,
zero to the point where you have a web application that automates everything,
the intermediate phase is using a lot of Excel. So it's very common in many labs
to use Excel for a lot of different things, you know, for QC, for charts, for tracking. So
OpenPi Excel for a few things.
One of them is when we have a lot of the sequencing data
that we have to summarize and then generate a QC
to be able to present that,
to essentially create an Excel document on the fly
from the backend to provide that,
whatever data they want to look at in terms of statistics
or list of variants or some form of calculation
they want to do further, that's where we use this package.
Typically we use it as part of our biofranics pipeline
when we have to generate those things,
but it's a very handy tool.
We actually use something similar,
and I'm forgetting the name of the package
that is used to generate a document.
Like we use some Word documents for creating reports,
but we also use Python there to be able to summarize
a lot of these data points and then create a Word document
that it starts with a template of a Word document
and then use Python to fill up all these, you know.
- Right, here's where the graph goes,
here's where the summary goes,
here's where the detected, whatever goes, yeah.
- Right.
- Yeah, cool.
Here's two things that overlap.
Are you familiar with this thing
where scientists rename human genes
to stop Excel from misreading them?
- Oh, yes, yes, absolutely.
- Oh my gosh, this is crazy.
- Yes, yes, it happens.
When we import a lot of this data coming from somewhere,
we'll see entries like September 14th, March 19th.
- Yeah, this is a big problem going in and out of Excel.
And so as much as you can do in Python
or any proper programming language,
rather than using Excel,
but there was one that was M-A-R-C-H-1 or March 1.
- Yes.
or SEPT1.
It's very funny. Some of the G names are funny,
but then Excel gets it to the next level when it changes the names.
What a danger. This doesn't make any sense.
Yeah.
Yeah. It doesn't make any sense.
All right. On to the next one, Hera.
Yes. Hera, this is very interesting.
This is where I think in our instance,
we are going away from standard web applications,
standard BioFriendix pipeline to really touching DevOps using Python.
One of the things that typically we get to the point when we scale up
our BioFriendix pipeline where we have multiple samples and multiple runs,
and everything needs to be orchestrated in a way where while you're running your pipeline,
You have a lot of visibility into how it works.
And so this is one of our projects we are working on
to move our current bioinformatics pipeline,
the way it works kind of on a single server
to be able to use the Kubernetes cluster
to actually deploy the long running pipelines onto that.
And so there are many options.
There are a more standard sort of
riddle-based kind of protocols that you can use
to run on either cloud or HPC environments.
There is a very popular tool called Nextflow
that is used to be able to kind of create
your data analysis pipe flow.
You can sort of define that
and then use any backend to deploy it.
One of the things that we kind of,
when I was exploring the space,
one of the things I came across was,
you know, the whole sort of ecosystem
that Argo maintains with Argo workflow
Argo CI/CD and all those things. So workflow was interesting because Argo provides that way where
you can sort of, you know, write your pipelines in a YAML format and then have it, you know,
deploy it on Kubernetes cluster. It really is very native to the Kubernetes cluster.
Interesting. It sounds a little bit like Ansible, but for specifically for
bio type of projects, right? Yeah. So Argo, so interesting thing is Argo,
when Argo workflows was set up really for a lot of CI/CD automations in mind.
So it is, yes, you can run data pipelines in general, but it was never, at least in its
description, it never describes use case in bioinformatics or in a biology pipeline analysis.
And similarly, it was like, okay, it's a generic tool, you can use it for whatever you want.
So I tried it out with using a YAML file, and it was a simple four-step pipeline. It was
wonderful. It was magical. And the good thing was with Argo, like the Argo workflow, when you install
that on your Kubernetes cluster, it comes with a native web interface. So I'm sure if you've heard
about the workflow option with airflow. So airflow is a package that also, you know,
there's a nice Python SDK for that, where you have you know, you deploy it on a Kubernetes cluster,
we have all these amazing, you know, visualizations to show what step you're on,
or if there's some error there, you do that, Argo does the same thing. So it has, it has obviously
the built in capability to interact with it as an API. But then also, there's a web interface that
that it'll deploy and it can have visibility
into every step of the process.
You can summarize and see the entire tree.
So that was very interesting for us
because we could get all that thing done in a single thing,
in a single goal.
But then our challenge was, or well, our desire was
that if you could integrate that with our LIMP system
that we're working on using FastAPI,
so that it was, hey, if there's any Python SDK.
And so that's where Hera comes in.
So Hera essentially is a SDK wrapper
that's essentially talking to our goal,
but you can define your pipeline steps as DAX in Python.
That makes the process super simple,
where you're now natively,
essentially, we can integrate that as a backend to our web application.
Then it's almost like it's Python again from start to finish.
You're not getting out of that.
Again, it's a very well-mintained application.
We are currently doing a validation to be able to make sure that
or demonstrate that it's equally performant
when we compare to a more native shell-based execution.
Okay. Yeah, this is new to me.
I mean, of course, I know Airflow, but not Air.
Cool.
All right.
Py in Sim, did I grab the right one here?
No, I think it's similar.
Let me see if I can...
I can send you the link.
Yeah, throw it in the private chat here and I'll pull it up.
Yep.
Okay.
There we go. InSIM.
Yeah, okay, got it.
Yeah, so this is a very interesting space in
next generation sequencing assay or for high throughput sequencing assays. So what happens is,
as I mentioned, that one of the things that's required for a clinical lab is to be able to
perform a validation on multiple samples of tumors that have certain mutations,
and then you can demonstrate that, yes, the assay works because you have tested 100 samples that have
300 different mutations of genetic alterations, and then you can demonstrate that, yes,
your pipeline or your assay was able to pick it up so you can say that you know your assay is you
know x percentage sensitive x person specific and you know your recall rate and things like that
so what happens is when you're trying to um get those samples that have these very difficult or
challenging variants to detect because they're just you know complex in how they occur biologically in
the cell is very difficult some of these are very rare there may be only two samples in the entire
or it's just not possible practically to get those samples unless we wait for like 10 years
to validate that.
So the idea is that if it is possible to be able to use algorithms which can manipulate
the existing sequence, so for example, we have a sequence data from an existing real
tumor sample, but we can manipulate that in a way where we introduce these mutations in
silico.
So we can introduce or insertion deletion mutations and then use that same file to then feed into our pipeline and say, okay, run through the entire data pipeline.
And then let's see if we are able to identify those variants that we inserted.
And so that's where the mutagenesis comes from.
It's a very hot topic.
it's a very relevant topic of interest to really fill this large gap in terms of availability
of rare variants and rare samples and how we can really improve sort of some of these rare
but very clinically significant edge cases where we don't want to miss those variants
and actually see those in real-time samples and so this is a python package that was developed by
at the University of Chicago as part of their clinical lab.
And so what really it does is it will take in a list of different mutations.
For example, in this plot, I think they give examples of insertions
where you have extra sequence or deletion where you have certain sequence
which are missing or SNVs or single nucleotide variants
where you have one nucleotide that got switched with another one.
And so these are typically that we practically see in like real samples
or real tumor samples, but this is a way to mimic that in a sample that does not have it.
And so this Python package is able to take that list from you say, okay, I have a list
of these 20 important mutations that I know from the public databases have been reported,
but I want them to be inserted into my dataset that was created from, say, a set of three or
four real tumors and then use that to challenge the pipeline to say that hey can you still pick
it up and so i see what this does simulate these rare changes and then yeah test or exercise your
your setup cool right we've got a few more to cover but i think we're getting a little bit short on
time so let me just close this out with a a final question for you because i know this is the topic
sure what is uh what does ai and llms look like for you guys is it does it matter is it really
powerful is it super important uh genetics is kind of text data in a sense and so yes sort of in the
space of how it could apply right right it is it is uh it is a it is a text data and it's a lot of
you know there's a when you talk about like a search space a lot of the search space is very
text-based you know there is some numerical base was a lot of text-based search as well
and i think across the entire spectrum from where we start with very raw sequencing data to the
point that we are trying to uh you know ask the question that okay i found this rare or novel
mutation in this particular gene what does it mean you know what tumor has been described
what disease does it relate to? One of the things that we do as molecular pathologists,
and this is sort of where a lot of the medical work comes in, is where we really go through a
lot of the medical literature, what we have learned before, new publications, papers out there that,
you know, that have a lot of data in terms of, you know, studies that have done on this particular
gene and they've described like, okay, these alterations actually activate the gene or is
is bad for the tumor or makes it treatment resistant.
So you can see the naturally a lot of text
that happens.
And so in that space, we are seeing in the,
I would say in the past, three to four years,
there's been a lot of application of AI tools
that have come out, particularly in the space
of variant calling where we have this genomic sequence data
and we're trying to identify variants.
One of the examples that's been talked about a lot
is the deep variant caller.
It's called Deep Variant from the team at Google
who developed that.
That uses a lot of the AI techniques
to be able to pick those things up.
There are some genomic databases
that we use for in silico prediction.
For example, if you have a variant,
we have no idea about it.
It uses, there's a database called DBSCSNV
that uses random forest techniques.
And I think it uses another algorithm to predict
if a certain site where there is a mutation
can enhance abnormal mechanism called splicing versus not.
Similarly, there's a lot of tools that are coming in
and the LLMs I think are, I would say not mainstream,
but I think there's a lot of interesting research
that is coming around there
where people are trying to use LLMs
for doing these more broader texts,
saying that, "Hey, I have these,
I don't know, a thousand articles
and I want to find these particular combination of words
that there's a combination of a disease and a mutation,
and what do I get back on that?
I personally tried ChatGPT with different phrases
and questions about it.
What I've seen so far is-- and this is purely
my personal experience-- I think a lot of it
reads very real.
But when you start to look into the references
as to what it references, then you quickly figure out what
just making yeah this is not the real deal and so i think um i think it's uh you know i know i'm not
a very pessimistic person i would say oh no this is all garbage but i think uh there is opportunity
there it's just how do you train it uh sure maybe there's a a space or an opportunity and it probably
already has been people are pursuing this is training a smaller model but really deeply in
in genetics, or is trying, not trying to use a model
that tries to understand everything.
- Right, right.
- Yeah.
- It's more, yeah, more in the medical literature
or the genomic literature to be able to,
like training is enhanced in that, yes.
So I think there's active work going on there,
but it's, yeah, it's, I think it's making, you know,
a lot of, a lot of interesting research,
a lot of potential impact on how, you know, we do things.
And obviously the tool sets that we currently use,
we might expect in the next 10 years to change.
- Yeah, for sure.
All right, final thought here.
People are listening,
they're maybe doing similar work to you.
How do they get started?
What would you tell them?
Get going with Python and some of these packages.
- Yeah, I mean, I would,
you know, my reflecting on my own experience
sort of in a very winded way that I ended up here.
I think, you know, Python is,
I feel programming in general, and I think Python particularly as a programming language
is a very low entry point in terms of being able to really quickly get things done, learn
it easily and get things done.
I think it should be, to me, anybody who's trying to pursue something in biology or competition
biology or bioinformatics, I think this is the first thing.
it's something easy to do. I would say relatively easy to do to be able to get into that. Anybody
with a desire to learn this has analytical thinking. I think investing into Python is
probably the best bet because you can pretty much do anything you want. That's what I tell
when I train people in my lab or I talk to other students is that if you want to spend your time,
you have very little time because you're busy with your other things, I think the one thing
that can get some of the job done and be still aligned with what you're doing is Python.
And after that, I think it's a lot of self-driven learning where you're looking into things.
But the good thing is, I think the Python community is wonderful. It's almost like I sit down and I
think about, "Oh, I have to solve this problem." Probably there are 50 other people who are thinking
about that and maybe two people have already worked on it so it's right they've already published it
to pypi and you're good to go absolutely i i totally agree with that and you know people should
take the couple of weeks get good at it and it'll amplify it'll save you time definitely in
the long run oh absolutely yes the only thing that i that i the only thing i would say like an added
Another thing is, if somebody is learning Python and then they do have an intention to take
it to the point where they would be involved in more serious application development or
maintaining an open source package or however they contribute to that, I think learning
a little bit more, like learning Python in its real sense in terms of how to do it right,
there are five ways of doing something correctly, but I think there's one way that is consistent
it's, again, easily shared, it's easily maintainable, others can easily understand. I think that would
be my second advice. It takes a little bit of time, but I think it's well worth the effort
to spend the time writing, you know, idiomatic Python code. So it's portable.
Absolutely. All right. So, Mac, thank you for being on the show. It's been
great to get this look inside of what you all are doing with Python.
Yeah. Thank you for having me on the show. I appreciate that.
Yep. Bye.
Okay.
Bye, Michael.